before we move on from linked lists all
together let's discuss an obvious
limitation that makes our list not so
useful in the real world
what is that limitation well let's
consider here an S list using class
it creates an S list with the number 5
and adds to the number 10 it'll all work
beautifully and wonderfully but suppose
we wanted to create not a list of
integers put a list of say strings so I
might try and start off with bone and
add bugs and if I try running this then
I ran into an issue string cannot be
converted to end and so the fundamental
issue we run into is that an S list has
int nodes and Internode's have int items
and therefore if we try to create an S
list using a string or how we try to add
to such an S list not using a string we
will get an error you cannot do this you
cannot take strings and convert them
into integers that's the ultimate self
so how do we fix that
well the lamest possible way we could
fix it is we could make an entirely new
s list class like string s list and then
do a find and replace for int everywhere
and oh boy
and that would be a terrible idea
obviously so the current approach in the
in modern java is to make s list a
parameterised well we can we can
parameterize the type that s list will
take what does that possibly mean ok so
what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna add new
little angled braces here right after
the name s list and here I'm gonna pick
any old string something arbitrary like
I'm not lockness and that's just going
to act as a placeholder for a type that
is not decided at the time s list was
created so instead of an int item we're
gonna have a lockness instead of
creating an int node we're gonna say
public int node and we need to provide
all honest int nodes probably not a
great name since it's no longer int node
so let's do a find and replace on that
to int node we'll just call this thing
stuff node whatever all right
just to emphasize it still has stuff in
it and then I am going to keep working
on my
way through so we create an s list now
I'll take lost missus instead of intz we
add look mrs. we return look mrs. we add
log missus and at that point we're all
done so the important part the main
thing I changed other than just the name
of int note is that added lostness here
this will compile and now an S list I'm
in won't run because there's no main
method nobody compiles and it should
work for how do we actually use one of
these things well now if we wanted to
make an S list we're going to now need
to specify a type when we create a s
list and we'll do with the angled braces
and so to do that I'll say I want an S
list of strings so we go we say I would
like to declare an S list of string
variable and instantiate an S list of
strings and now when we try running this
everything should work fine okay so they
are when it worked
hooray and so what's going on here is
that whenever we instantiate an S list
this string right here
this string right here will get
substituted everywhere in for lockness
so it's basically a type variable or a
type parameter and so we can give it a
little confusing and we're not gonna
talk a lot about it right now I just
want you to know the basics now an even
more modern Java it is no longer
necessary to specify the type on the
instantiation side so I'm going to
delete that and this too will work okay
so just summarize there and later in the
course we're gonna dig a lot more deeply
into this issue but the to summarize
what we've got here is we can defer type
selection until later until we've
declared a variable or until we have
instantiated a variable and to do that
we pick any arbitrary string and in the
class that we're creating we just put it
right after the name and then we want to
use it we make sure that we specify at
the type we want and we're declaring and
optionally when we're instantiating so
again we'll go into this and so much
more detail there's a lot of little
details it can be confusing but these
are the rules of thumb you'll need for
project one where you're gonna build a
generic
list so in the Java file where you
implement your data structure this side
we are building the actual thing you'll
specify our generic type only once at
the very top of the file right there
bleep bored blurp right and it's
specified inside of these angle brick
braces you can use it elsewhere but
you'll only specify at once and then in
Java files that you use your data
structure you'll specify the desired
type just once it'll do it whenever you
declare the variable and then use the
empty diamond operator during
instantiation I mean you can't also
write out double so you could
technically use it twice but this will
make your code look more like what
you're likely to see in the real world
and when you're actually declaring or
instantiating your data structure
whenever you're putting something inside
of these braces you want to make sure
that you use capital I integer capital D
double and so forth so use the reference
type corresponding to each of the
primitive types so that will get you as
much as you need on project one and
there'll be a couple little tiny gotchas
that will be mentioned in the project
one FAQ and we'll get into generics more
somewhat later